<p hidden>
Title: 1.21 Server Update
Author: TheAxolot77
AuthorImg: /assets/logo_theaxo77.png
AuthorTitle: Owner
Banner: /assets/articles/banners/mc_server_1.21.png
</p>

# 1.21 Server Update

**Quite alot has changed!**

## ServerSide

- **Updated to 1.21**
<br>
    After hopping *1.20.5* and *1.20.6* to wait for plugins/datapacks to update,
    the server is finally updated.

    * Some datapacks had not updated to 1.21 so alternatives have been found:

        - CustomArcheology: Found alternative, should work the same.
        - MoreArmorTrims: Manually forked and updated.
        - HeadEquip: Found alternative, should work the same.
        - PlayTime: Updated.
    
    * Some new datapacks:

        - Villager Workstation Hightlights *(Testing, might get removed)*

    * Known issues/bugs in datapacks: *(As noted in vanilla-tweaks discord server)
        - Wandering Trades (NOT Hermit Edition) for 1.21 includes Hermit heads.
        - The Wandering Trades data packs are missing the new 1.21 mini blocks that are added in our their Mini Blocks data pack.

<br>

- **Switched to Fabric?**
<br>
    To hopefully be more performant aswell as stable i decided to migrate the server to fabric.
    
    This comes with a quite afew changes however:
    
    * Redstone is no-longer bound by *Paper* and functions like vanilla.
    * Alternatives to all plugins have been found so some functionality will
    be diffrent.
        
        - CustomMusicDiscs need to be migrated by an admin and/or me.
        - `/spin` is currently missing but sitting and crawling should work, albeight slight diffrent.
        - You can no longer fly with a leashed player.
        - Snowball/Egg knockback/damage is slightly different.

<br>

- **Server Maintenance**
<br>
    Because of hosting issues partial-rollbacks have happened.
    I have tried to either recreate or re-add things, if important things are missing contact me.

    I did some light world-trimming in the overworld to bring down file size, *same applies here.*


## ClientSide

### BETA1

**Known Issues:**

The mod `RyoamicLights` has some issues with high amounts to GlowingItemFrames,
so it is disabled by default on BETA2, to disable it on BETA1:
1. Go into `Mods` menu by pressing ESC and clicking `Mods`.
2. Search `RyoamicLights` and press the *"Sliders-icon"* (Configure).
3. Click `Dynamic Lights` to `Off`.

<br>

<details>
    <summary>**Mod Changes: (Since 1.20.4_Community_Client_Lite_U3)**</summary>
    <br>

    - <span style="color:red;font-weight:bold;">Missing Mods</span>:
        * `Appleskin`
        * `BetterMountHUD`
        * `CitResewn`
        * `FerriteCore`
        * `Krypton`
        * `main-menu-credits`
        * `map-compass`
        * `MoreCulling`

    - <span style="color:green;font-weight:bold;">New Mods</span>:
        * `Continuity`
        * `Indium` *(Fixes Continuity)*
        * `MapTooltip`
        * `NoTelemetry`

    - <span style="color:blue;font-weight:bold;">Alternatives</span>:
        * `beenfo` -> `Beehive Tooltip`
        * `lambdynamiclights` -> `RyoamicLights`
        * `midnightcontrols` -> `Controlify`

    - <span style="color:orange;font-weight:bold;">Skipped</span>:
        * `map-in-slot`
        * `memoryleakfix`
        * `ModDetectionPreventer`
        * `suggestion-tweaker`
        * `threadtweak`
</details>